Documentation for the new JSON viewer tool (#2378)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/json-viewer/json-viewer.md

---
title: View formatted JSON
description: How to use the JSON viewer to view formatted and highlighted JSON responses in a browser tab.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.date: 01/04/2023
---
# View formatted JSON

Use the **JSON viewer** to automatically format and highlight JSON responses and files in browser tabs.

> When your web server responds to HTTP requests with data encoded as JSON, this data isn't always easy to read and is sometimes returned as one line of text. The **JSON viewer** changes the returned data to make it easier to read. The JSON syntax is highlighted with different colors, object properties are displayed on their own lines and indented, and objects can be collapsed or expanded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **JSON viewer** changes the returned JSON data to make it easier to read. Sometimes a web server responds to HTTP requests by returning data encoded as JSON.  JSON data can be difficult to read when it's formatted as a single long, concatenated line of text. The same can occur when opening a JSON file from disk.

The **JSON viewer** improves readability of JSON data in several ways:
*  The JSON syntax is highlighted with different colors.
*  Object properties are displayed on their own lines and indented.
*  Objects can be collapsed or expanded.
```
some ideas for wording & formatting.  i started by copying my rewording from another comment at bottom of Files Changed.

The **JSON viewer** tool is included in Microsoft Edge starting with version 110.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## View formatted JSON server responses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## View JSON server responses reformatted for readability
```
avoid misreading as:
if the server returns JSON that's formatted, don't need tool.

> To view a formatted JSON response from a web server:

Author: I see one risk with this: the tool does not reformat the actual JSON on the web server. It only shows a reformatted version of it, leaving the original data untouched. I know this may sound obvious to many, but it becomes less obvious when you open local JSON files from your disk.

"To reformat the JSON data that's in a file on disk" sounds very much like the tool actually reformats the file itself.

How about something in between:

* "To view a JSON response from a web server as reformatted JSON", and
* "To view a local JSON file as reformatted JSON".

> To view a formatted JSON response from a web server:

Reviewer: "local JSON file" is a little surprising to me, is it really a file on the local drive at this point?

Changing my suggestion from:
To reformat the JSON data that's returned by a web server
to:
To view a JSON response from a web server as reformatted JSON:

> To view a formatted JSON response from a web server:

Author: I just pushed a new commit that, hopefully, addresses this point.

1. Open a new tab or window in Microsoft Edge.

> 1. Type a URL that returns JSON data in the address bar. For example, use [this sample JSON response](https://codepo8.github.io/json-dummy-data/411k-min.json).

Reviewer 2: Change to the new location https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/json-dummy-data/411k-min.json

1. Microsoft Edge detects that the returned data is JSON and formats it automatically.

   ![JSON data returned by a web server, formatted and syntax-highlighted by the JSON viewer](./images/json-response.png)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## View formatted JSON files

To view a formatted JSON file stored on your device:

1. Open a new tab or window in Microsoft Edge.

1. Press `Ctrl`+`O` on Windows and Linux, or `Cmd`+`O` on macOS and choose the JSON file you want to open.

> 1. Microsoft Edge detects that the file contains JSON and formats it automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Microsoft Edge detects that the file contains JSON and formats it automatically:
```
d/k if I entered this comment before.  
Consider whether this is an opportunity to use colon to glue flow.  
That's more low-key than image captions and referencing figure numbers in sentences.

   ![JSON data stored in a local file, formatted and syntax-highlighted by the JSON viewer](./images/json-file.png)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Detect invalid JSON data

> JSON data can sometimes be invalid. For example, not adding double quotes around keys or leaving a trailing comma after the last key/value pair is invalid in JSON.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JSON data can sometimes be invalid. For example, the following JSON is invalid:
*  Omitting double quotes around a key name.
*  Having a trailing comma after the last key/value pair.
```
making parsing easier

> JSON data can sometimes be invalid. For example, if the keys aren't surrounded by double quotes, or if there's a comma after the last key/value pair, the JSON data will be invalid.

Reviewer 2: Weird repetition. How about
"For example, not adding double quotes around keys or leaving a trailing comma after the last key/value pair are invalid JSON syntax."

> The **JSON viewer** applies syntax highlighting to invalid JSON, but does not format the content and you can't collapse or expand objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **JSON viewer** applies syntax highlighting to invalid JSON.  However, the **JSON viewer** doesn't format the content, and you can't collapse or expand objects.
```
use "does not" if need to emphasize.
use "doesn't" if low-key is ok.

> When the **JSON viewer** detects invalid JSON, the syntax is still highlighted but the content isn't formatted and objects can't be collapsed or expanded.

Reviewer 2: Lots of passive voice here. 
The **JSON viewer** applies syntax highlighting to invalid JSON, but the does not format the content and you can't collapse or expand objects.

> Additionally, an error is printed in the **Console** tool.

Reviewer 2: You can find information why the JSON is invalid in the  "Console" tool, where the **JSON viewer** reports any errors.

As seen below, invalid JSON responses are shown unformatted but highlighted, and an error is printed in the **Console** to help diagnose the syntax error:

> ![Highlighted JSON content, in a browser tab, with DevTools opened on the side, showing a JavaScript error indicating where the JSON syntax error is located](./images/invalid-json.png)

Reviewer 2: We also need to cover that the JSON viewer shows dark and light themes.

Reviewer: I plan to enter a Suggestion change comment if not done already.

> ---

Reviewer: rename the /images/ dir that's a child of the /json-viewer/ dir to /json-viewer-images/
to explicitly indicate that the dir is dedicated to that .md file.

Then in this .md, update the path for the .png files that are in that dir.

> ---

Reviewer: Reformat the links in
https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/Demos/tree/main/json-dummy-data#readme
as githit.io links, like done in the body of this article; 
https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/json-dummy-data/256KB-min.json
I think I'm seeing those json files formatted due to GH, not due to Edge.

The above line is probably a sufficient template, but here's the xform'n pattern:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/sample-code/sample-code#url-patterns-for-rendered-demo-webpages-and-source-code

> ---

Reviewer: all .pngs: white-out the purple & gold + signs in top right

eg direct link to one of the .pngs (assuming "/images"/ dir):
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/user/pabrosse/json-viewer/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/json-viewer/images/json-response.png

> ---

Reviewer: all pngs: try to show entire url in Addr bar; widen window a little

title: View formatted JSON
description: How to use the JSON viewer to view formatted and highlighted JSON responses in a browser tab.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.date: 01/04/2023
---
# View formatted JSON

Use the **JSON viewer** to automatically format and highlight JSON responses and files in browser tabs.

The **JSON viewer** changes the returned JSON data to make it easier to read. Sometimes a web server responds to HTTP requests by returning data encoded as JSON.  JSON data can be difficult to read when it's formatted as a single long, concatenated line of text. The same can occur when opening a JSON file from disk.

The **JSON viewer** improves readability of JSON data in several ways:

*  The JSON syntax is highlighted with different colors.
*  Object properties are displayed on their own lines and indented.

> *  Objects can be collapsed or expanded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  Objects can be collapsed or expanded.
*  The JSON viewer shows dark and light themes.
```
Is this the best place and format to cover that the JSON viewer shows dark and light themes?
See context of that [comment](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/2378#discussion_r1065812523).

The **JSON viewer** tool is included in Microsoft Edge starting with version 110.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## View reformatted JSON server responses

To view a JSON response from a web server as reformatted JSON:

1. Open a new tab or window in Microsoft Edge.

> 1. Type a URL that returns JSON data in the address bar. For example, use [this sample JSON response](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/json-dummy-data/256KB-min.json). You can find more samples JSON responses at [MicrosoftEdge / Demos > json-dummy-data](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/Demos/tree/main/json-dummy-data).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Type a URL that returns JSON data in the address bar. For example, use [this sample JSON response](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/json-dummy-data/256KB-min.json). You can find more samples of JSON responses at [MicrosoftEdge / Demos > json-dummy-data](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/Demos/tree/main/json-dummy-data).
```

1. Microsoft Edge detects that the returned data is JSON and formats it automatically:

>    ![JSON data returned by a web server, formatted and syntax-highlighted by the JSON viewer](./images/json-response.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ![JSON data returned by a web server, formatted and syntax-highlighted by the JSON viewer](./json-viewer-images/json-response.png)
```
if rename dir

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## View reformatted JSON files

To view a JSON file stored on your device as reformatted JSON:

1. Open a new tab or window in Microsoft Edge.

> 1. Press `Ctrl`+`O` on Windows and Linux, or `Cmd`+`O` on macOS and choose the JSON file you want to open.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Press `Ctrl`+`O` on Windows and Linux, or `Cmd`+`O` on macOS and select a JSON file.
```

> 1. Microsoft Edge detects that the file contains JSON and formats it automatically:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Microsoft Edge detects that the file contains JSON data and formats it automatically:
```
reasoning: try spelling out:
Microsoft Edge detects that the file contains JavaScript object notation and formats it automatically:
would be ungramm fwiw

>    ![JSON data stored in a local file, formatted and syntax-highlighted by the JSON viewer](./images/json-file.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ![JSON data stored in a local file, formatted and syntax-highlighted by the JSON viewer](./json-viewer-images/json-file.png)
```
if rename dir

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Detect invalid JSON data

> JSON data can sometimes be invalid. For example, the following JSON is invalid:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JSON data can sometimes be invalid. For example, the following is invalid in JSON:
```
What is below the lead-in sentence isn't JSON, it's a description of formatting that could be (invalidly) in a JSON listing.

*  Omitting double quotes around a key name.

> *  Having a trailing comma after the last key/value pair.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  Having a trailing comma after the last key/value pair.
*  Missing colon.
* Unterminated.
*  Binary data.
```
tech review / clarify.  
sync w/ https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/Demos/tree/main/json-dummy-data#invalid-json

Author: Hm, I think this is making the article unnecessarily complex. We're not documenting the JSON format here, nor do we really need to list all of the ways it can be invalid. We're documenting the tool only. I would personally stick with the 2 examples of invalid JSON we already have.

Author: And, it's ok for me if the Demos repo has more invalid sample JSON files than the ones we list here. The Demos repo isn't a perfect 1:1 mapping of what we have in the docs, and doesn't need to be. It can serve other purposes. In this case, the invalid JSON files on the repo are useful to test how the tool behaves in a variety of cases (such as binary data).

Reviewer: this thread can be Resolved

The **JSON viewer** applies syntax highlighting to invalid JSON. However, the **JSON viewer** doesn't format the content, and you can't collapse or expand objects.

You can find information about the invalid syntax in the **Console** tool, where the **JSON viewer** reports errors.

> As seen below, invalid JSON responses are shown unformatted but highlighted, and an error is printed in the **Console** to help diagnose the syntax error:

Reviewer: provide a link to the file that's shown in the capture.

Would be nice to make window wider in capture to show full URL if not too long, in addr bar.

> 

Reviewer: link from this section to https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/Demos/tree/main/json-dummy-data#minified-json

> ![Highlighted JSON content, in a browser tab, with DevTools opened on the side, showing a JavaScript error indicating where the JSON syntax error is located](./images/invalid-json.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Highlighted JSON content, in a browser tab, with DevTools opened on the side, showing a JavaScript error indicating where the JSON syntax error is located](./json-viewer-images/invalid-json.png)
```
if rename dir

> ![Highlighted JSON content, in a browser tab, with DevTools opened on the side, showing a JavaScript error indicating where the JSON syntax error is located](./images/invalid-json.png)

Reviewer: Modify .png:
* Make window 11 chars wider in the capture to show full URL.
* In the DevTools pane, make it wide enough to show "Console" in the toolbar, right now doesn't show any words, only ">>" and "+" (disorienting)
* Close the Drawer in the capture (confusing).
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/user/pabrosse/json-viewer/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/json-viewer/images/invalid-json.png

GH rendered h2:
https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/blob/user/pabrosse/json-viewer/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/json-viewer/json-viewer.md#detect-invalid-json-data

ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.date: 01/04/2023
---
# View formatted JSON

Use the **JSON viewer** to automatically format and highlight JSON responses and files in browser tabs.

The **JSON viewer** changes the returned JSON data to make it easier to read. Sometimes a web server responds to HTTP requests by returning data encoded as JSON.  JSON data can be difficult to read when it's formatted as a single long, concatenated line of text. The same can occur when opening a JSON file from disk.

The **JSON viewer** improves readability of JSON data in several ways:

*  The JSON syntax is highlighted with different colors.
*  Object properties are displayed on their own lines and indented.
*  Objects can be collapsed or expanded.
*  The JSON viewer matches your operating system's dark or light theme.

The **JSON viewer** tool is included as an experiment in Microsoft Edge starting with version 110.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Enable the JSON viewer

By default, the **JSON viewer** isn't enabled. To enable the JSON viewer experiment:

1. Go to `edge://flags`.

1. In the **Search flags** text field, type **JSON viewer**.

> 1. In the **JSON viewer** dropdown menu, select **Enabled**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the **JSON Viewer** dropdown menu, select **Enabled**.
```
per screenshot UI label
